Brandin versus marketing marketing
versus branding what are they and how do
they work together that's what we're
gonna talk about today because you see I
never put much stock into brand or
branding what like I said I always
thought the design was stupid and never
impacted things the way that designers
and other people like to claim that it
did I was a hundred percent wrong and in
this video I've also enlisted some help
from a special guest so I'll introduce
here in a moment to you because they
work somewhere where they are a marketer
but at a company that also has an
amazing brand spoiler that's that's
their book that's their book right there
so my guest today bill King who runs the
SEO organic search and paid acquisition
at Drift one of my favorite brands again
plug the book conversational marketing
so what I'm gonna share with you today
is just a super short clip of Bill and I
talking about how brand supports
marketing and vice versa how they work
together what's the difference let's
check that out with such good creative
with such a valuable brand and I
completely agree with you like drift was
able to turn chat and what I would I
would argue intercom branded it's like
support into marketing in sales and it
was cool like it's cool to have it like
who friggin thought they haven't chat on
your website would be a cool thing like
people hated it for a long time now
people are like this is really helpful
and fun and like whatever um talk like
what's the how does that affect your SEO
strategy when you have a like an RT kind
of established brain and good creative
yeah
I'll tell you what it helps the outreach
process that's for sure and reaching out
from drift calm it pretty cool yeah that
and you have to lean into that right
there are certain things that come as a
strength with every company you're at
and I think like if you're in the SEO
space and you look at two brands one of
them has a million backlinks from great
PR impressed because they've gone out
and built and invested in brand and the
other one doesn't and it has nothing
remarkable about it you would be crazy
that's worth the one that does unless
there's some like obvious thing that
isn't cleric like clarified by those two
data points so I think like taking that
into consideration is really important
also the the amount of things that your
you're able to do like we can focus on
content creation and doing some light
optimization I don't really I mean we
still do link building but like you know
it is it doesn't have to be my full day
because we get a lot of attention on the
stuff that we do create mm-hmm and that
affords you opportunity in other areas
that maybe like I wouldn't have time to
spend on right so I think that's one
important thing and then just like the
when you send someone to our content and
it looks fantastic
there are there you I know you're
nodding your head there are many reasons
why that's a benefit to you there like
it naturally is trustworthy it gets
people to engage with it a bit more and
also like it's just if you're gonna
refer to something on your on your
website it looks fantastic you just can
be more likely to link to it and share
it so to build off of that clip that you
just watched one of the things I always
think about is when to invest in brand
you know I've worked with companies that
started with brand drift arguably
started by building a brand before they
even had really fleshed out and solid
products offer like their products are
chatbots like they're not that
interesting and in terms of the product
but the brand they've built this so
strong so they invested in brand early
but I've also heard numbers around like
don't invest in brand until you have a
50 million dollar or five hundred
million dollar company which I just
think is absolutely absurd now should
the pendulum swing the other way should
you spend your first five thousand
dollars on a logo in some design know
like even SEO for the rest of us this
logo you see right here like that logo
didn't get done until I already had a
hundred paying customers right like I
sold everything well without a website
without creating anything without a
brand without logo without any of that
sort of stuff thought through you don't
need it to get started however if you
neglect it too long it will hurt you not
having a solid brand and that ethos
around your company who you are and what
you do
will hurt your marketing the capacity of
that marketing like Bill mentioned he's
able to do so much more in marketing
because of their brand so while branding
and marketing are super important you
can't treat them in isolation they have
to be thought through also if you're in
love with SEO make sure you check out
SEO for the rest of us by doing two
things subscribe to this channel and
check out my free newsletter at Brendon
Hufford dot-com slash newsletter and
then finally if you're a video and
podcast creator like me make sure you
check out Pat Richard comm Jackie and
her team or who helped turn all of my
video and audio content into amazing
just long-form written content that goes
that on a hundred days of SEO comm and
pulls in organic traffic from Google
search so in case you wanted 20 calls to
action at the end of a video I've got
you covered
let me know in the comments below how do
you see brand and marketing working
together which have you invested in
first marketing have you spent more time
doing marketing or have you spent more
time investing in the brand i've been
brendon Hufford don't forget to work
hard be nice people and don't get too
lost trying to create something that
[Music]